# Effects

## Why effects

- There are two kind of logics inside a React component rendering and event handlers.
- Rendering is where React invokes our component and tries to figure out what to display on the screen. Rendering code must be pure. No side effects or communication with external systems.
- Event handlers are triggered as a result of user interactions. They are the best place to cause side effects.
- However, sometimes this is not enough. Consider a component that connects to a server whenever it's visible on the screen.
- We cannot connect to server during rendering as it's a side effect.
- Also, there is no event that causes this component to be visible on screen.


## Effects

- Till now, we were causing side effects only in event handlers in response to a user interaction.
- Effects let you specify side effects that are caused by rendering itself, rather than by a particular event.
- Effects run at the end of a commit after the screen updates.
- React tells us that it is done updating the screen and asks us if we want to perform any side effect in response to that.
- Render ----> Commit ----> Screen updates ----> Effect 


## How to write an Effect

- Whenever we decode we need an effect, Always think about these three scenarios.


## Step 1: Declare an Effect 

```tsx
function MyComponent() {
  useEffect(() => {
    // Code here will run after *every* render
  });
  return <div />;
}
```

- Every time your component renders, React will update the screen and then run the code inside useEffect.


Example

- Consider a `<VideoPlayer>` React component which takes two props `src` and `isPlaying` to control whether the video is playing or paused.
- However, the browser `<video>` tag does not have an isPlaying prop. The only way to control it is to manually call the `play()` and `pause()` methods on the DOM element.
- We’ll need to first get a ref to the <video> DOM node.
- At first we might be tempted to control the behavior during rendering like below

```tsx
function VideoPlayer({ src, isPlaying }) {
  const ref = useRef(null);

  if (isPlaying) {
    ref.current.play();  // Calling these while rendering isn't allowed.
  } else {
    ref.current.pause(); // Also, this crashes.
  }

  return <video ref={ref} src={src} loop playsInline />;
}
```

- This is wrong.
- Rendering logic must be pure. But here we are causing side effects like DOM manipulations.
- Also, we should never read or write a ref during rendering as during first render, the DOM is not created yet and our code will crash.
- So, we wrap our logic in an effect which will run after React has updated the screen.

```tsx
  useEffect(() => {
    if (isPlaying) {
      videoRef.current?.play();
      return;
    }
    videoRef.current?.pause();
  });
```

## Preventing infinte loop

```tsx
const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
useEffect(() => {
  setCount(count + 1);
});
```

- By default, Effects run after every render, after React has updated the screen.
- If we try to set state inside an effect it will lead to infinite loop.
- Setting state triggers rendering. And after rendering effect runs in which we set state, So another rendering wiil happen and effect will run again and so on.


## Step 2: Specify the Effect dependencies 

- We use effects for causing side effects due to rendering.
- Side effects are expensive operations.
- By default effects run after every render. So, the expensive operations will be done after every render.
- Often this is not what we want.
- Consider the `VideoPlayer` example above. In the parent component, we have a text field.
- Notice that on every keystroke, the `VideoPlayer` component runs it's effect as the parent component has rendered as a result of state updates.
- You can tell React to skip unnecessarily re-running the Effect by specifying an array of dependencies as the second argument to the useEffect call.
- React will compare the value of dependencies to the value in previous render. Only if any value has changed since previous render, Effect will be called.
- The code inside effect might use some state variable or props. They become good candidates for dependencies.

## Use effect variants

```tsx
useEffect(() => {
  // This runs after every render
});

useEffect(() => {
  // This runs only on mount (when the component appears)
}, []);

useEffect(() => {
  // This runs on mount *and also* if either a or b have changed since the last render
}, [a, b]);
```

## Step 3: Add cleanup if needed 

- Imagine we have a component that needs to connect to server when it appears on the screen.
- So, we will start by declaring an effect as this is a side effect caused by rendering.

```tsx
useEffect(() => {
  const connection = createConnection();
  connection.connect();
});
```
- But we do not need to create a connection after every render. So, we specify a dependency.
- But the code inside effect is not using any state or prop so we will have an empty dependencies array.
- Effect will run only after a component mounts.

```tsx
useEffect(() => {
  const connection = createConnection();
  connection.connect();
}, []);
```

## React remounts components in development mode

- In development React remounts every component once immediately after its initial mount.
- Imagine we have multiple pages in our application.
- User starts their journey on ChatRoom component which creates a connection on mounting.
- Now user navigates away from our page, whihc will unmount ChatRoom component.
- Now user presses back and goes again to ChatRoom component.
- ChatRoom will mount again and create another connection.
- But the first connection was never destroyed.
- If the user keeps switching between pages, it will pile up a lot of connections.
- Hence React remounts components in development mode so that it's easier to track issues like these.
