# The Counter Example App


## Designing the state structure

- Think of the minimal data needed for the app to work.
- Spend some good amount of time and keep refactoring and refining the state structure.


## Redux Slices

- Our application state can have different independent features or pieces.
- For each independent feature, we create a slice that manages that feature only.
- A slice is a collection of `reducer` and `actions` for a single feature typically defined together in a single file.

## Creating Slice Reducers and Actions

counterSlice.ts

1. Define the structure of the feature.

```ts
export interface CounterState {
  value: number
  status: 'idle' | 'loading' | 'failed'
}
```

2. Define the initial value for the feature.

```ts
const initialState: CounterState = {
  value: 0,
  status: 'idle'
}
```

3. Define the slice which consists of reducers and actions

- Key is the action and value is the reducer function.
- Redux Toolkit allows us to write "mutating" logic in reducers. It doesn't actually mutate the state because it uses the Immer library  which detects changes to a "draft state" and produces a brand new immutable state based off those changes.
- Also we are not returning anything from reducer function.
- Like a typical reducer function, it takes `currentState` and `action` object as argument which can be of type `PayloadAction<>`.
- `createSlice` automatically generates action type, action objects and action creators for us.
- The action type is computes as `name` + key of reducer function. Like `counter/increment`.


```ts
export const counterSlice = createSlice({
  name: 'counter',
  initialState,
  // The `reducers` field lets us define reducers and generate associated actions
  reducers: {
    increment: state => {
      // Redux Toolkit allows us to write "mutating" logic in reducers. It
      // doesn't actually mutate the state because it uses the Immer library,
      // which detects changes to a "draft state" and produces a brand new
      // immutable state based off those changes
      state.value += 1
    },
    decrement: state => {
      state.value -= 1
    },
    // Use the PayloadAction type to declare the contents of `action.payload`
    incrementByAmount: (state, action: PayloadAction<number>) => {
      state.value += action.payload
    }
  }
})
```

4. Export the generated action creators for use in components

```ts
export const { increment, decrement, incrementByAmount } = counterSlice.actions
```


5. Export the slice reducer for use in the store configuration

```ts
export default counterSlice.reducer
```



## Creating the Redux Store

```ts
export const store = configureStore({
  reducer: {
    counter: counterReducer
  }
})
```

- If our application has different features, each feature will have it's own slice. We need to pass all those slice to the reducer object of `configureStore` function.
- The final app state will depend on the names of the key we have passed.
