# Writing Markup with JSX

- We need a markup language like HTML to define the content of our webpage.
- React uses JSX to define markup in JS file.
- JSX is very similar to HTML but is a bit stricter.

## JSX: Putting markup into JavaScript 

- The Web has been built on HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
- For many years, web developers used different files to place content, design and logic. Content in html file, designs in css files and logic in js files.
- But as the Web became more interactive, logic increasingly determined content. The markup was decided by logic. JavaScript was in charge of the HTML!
- This is why in React, rendering logic and markup live together in the same place—components.


## The Rules of JSX 

## 1. Return a single root element 

- Component returns markup that si rendered in the browser. The markup must have a single root element.
- JSX looks like HTML, but under the hood it is transformed into plain JavaScript objects. You can’t return two objects from a function without wrapping them into an array. This explains why you also can’t return two JSX tags without wrapping them into another tag or a Fragment.
- To return multiple elements from a component, wrap them with a single parent tag.
- If you don’t want to add an extra element to your markup, you can use Fragments.


## 2. camelCase all most of the things! 

- JSX turns into JavaScript and attributes written in JSX become keys of JavaScript objects.
- JavaScript has limitations on variable names. For example, their names can’t contain dashes or be reserved words like class.
