# Passing Props to a Component

- Parent component wants to send some information to it's chilren components.


## Step 1: Pass props to the child component 

- Parent can pass multiple props to a children.
- All these props are consolidated into an object and passed to the child.
- What child receives is an object which contains all these props sent by parent.

```tsx
export default function Profile() {
  return (
    <Avatar
      person={person}
      size={100}
    />
  );
}
```

## Step 2: Read props inside the child component 

- The child component has received an object in the form of props.
- We destructure this object to extract the individual piecees of information.

```tsx
function Avatar({ person, size }) {
  // person and size are available here
}
```

## Specifying a default value for a prop 

- Parent passes some information to child components.
- What happens if the parent forgets to send that information and it is required in child component.
- In that case we can use default props.
- The default value is only used if we do not the prop or we pass `undefined`. For other falsy values like `null`, `0`, `false`, "" etc. Default value will not be used.

## Forwarding props with the JSX spread syntax 

```tsx
function Profile({ person, size, isSepia, thickBorder }) {
  return (
    <div className="card">
      <Avatar
        person={person}
        size={size}
        isSepia={isSepia}
        thickBorder={thickBorder}
      />
    </div>
  );
}
```

```tsx
function Profile(props) {
  return (
    <div className="card">
      <Avatar {...props} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

- Some components forward all of their props to their children.
- In that case it makes more sense to use a concise spread syntax than writing repititive code for passing props.
- If the structure of props changes (addition or removal) we have to update that change in multiple places.


## Passing JSX as children 

- Some components do not know their content ahead of time. Their structure remains same but the content can vary. Examples a dialog, drawer, collapsible.
- A dialog will always have a header, body and a footer but we might want to render different content in the dialog body on different screens.
- In that case we define a generic component that represents the structure and then pass the content(JSX) as props from parent.
- Think that the generic component defines holes that the parent component can fill by passing content.


```tsx
<Card>
  <Avatar />
</Card>
```

- When we nest content inside a JSX tag, the parent component will receive that content in a prop called `children`.
- Anything passed inside the `Card` component tags gets passed as `children`.
- Sometimes you might need multiple holes in a component. In such cases you may come up with your own convention instead of using children.


```tsx
export default function App() {
  return (
    <Card
      header={<div>Header</div>}
      body={<div>Body</div>}
      footer={<div>Footer</div>}
    ></Card>
  );
}

export default function Card({ header, body, footer }: Props) {
  return (
    <div className="card">
      <div className="card__header">{header}</div>
      <div className="card__body">{body}</div>
      <div className="card__footer">{footer}</div>
    </div>
  );
}
```

## How props change over time 

- A component may receive different props over time. Props are not always static.
- However props are immutable. We should never try to change props.
- Instead we should ask parent to pass a new set of props a new object and the old one will be garbage collected.
