# Conditional Rendering

- A component might have to display different things based on different conditions.
- Example a spinner, no data found, error screen or data table.
- What are the different ways to do conditional rendering in React ?



## Conditionally returning JSX 

- A component always returns some JSX.
- Use this pattern when we want to return completely different JSX tree from a component based on different conditions.
- Like a spinner, Error page, no data found screen or datatable with filters.

```tsx
if (isPacked) {
  return <li className="item">{name} ✅</li>;
}
return <li className="item">{name}</li>;
```


## Conditionally returning nothing with `null`

- Sometimes we want a component to not render anything. We call the component but it should not render anything at all.
- But a component must return something.
- We can return `null` or `false` from a component which acts as a hole.
- If we don't want a component to do anything, perhaps a better way is to not render it at all. We can add the check in the parent component's JSX.

```tsx
if (isPacked) {
  return null;
}
return <li className="item">{name}</li>;
```


## Conditional (ternary) operator (? :) 

```tsx
return (
  <li className="item">
    {isPacked ? name + ' ✅' : name}
  </li>
);
```
- You can read it as “if isPacked is true, then (?) render name + ' ✅', otherwise (:) render name”.
- This style works well for simple conditions, but use it in moderation.
- If your components get messy with too much nested conditional markup, consider extracting child components to clean things up.


## Logical AND operator (&&) 


- Render some JSX only if some condition is true else render nothing at all.
- You can read this as “if isPacked, then (&&) render the checkmark, otherwise, render nothing”.
- A JavaScript && expression returns the value of its right side (in our case, the checkmark) if the left side (our condition) is true.
- But if the condition is `false`, the whole expression becomes `false`. React considers false as a “hole” in the JSX tree, just like `null` or `undefined`, and doesn’t render anything in its place.

```tsx
return (
  <li className="item">
    {name} {isPacked && '✅'}
  </li>
);
```
