# Rendering Lists

- We have a collection of data like an array.
- For every item, we want to display some JSX on the screen.
- React can easily render array of JSX elements.
- But we do not have array of JSX, we have array of data items. So, we need to convert the array of data to array of JSX.
- We use array transform menthods like `map` to convert data to collection of JSX.

```tsx

export default function App() {
  const [people, setPeople] = useState(PEOPLE);

  const listItems = people.map((el) => <li>{el}</li>);

  return <ul>{listItems}</ul>;
}
```


## Keeping list items in order with key 

- Whenever we render list of JSX, all JSX elements must have a `key` prop.
- With the help of keys, React maintains a mapping between the source array and the components we render.
- So that, later if the order of our source array changes, due to sorting, insertion or deletion React does not have to tear down and recreate the list again.
- React will simply perform the minimum DOM updates needed and `key` helps React understand that.
- Without keys React has to tear down and recreate our components again which is slow and can lead to loss of user input.



## Rules of keys 

- Keys must be unique among siblings. However, it’s okay to use the same keys for JSX nodes in different arrays.
- Keys must not change across renders. Don’t generate them while rendering.

## Pitfalls with keys

- Do not use array index as the `key`. If the array elements move due to sorting, insertion or deletion the index will also change.
- Similarly, do not generate keys on the fly, e.g. with key={Math.random()}. Every render it will generate a new key leading to all your components and DOM being recreated every time. Not only is this slow, but it will also lose any user input inside the list items.

## Displaying several DOM nodes for each list item 

- What do you do when each item needs to render not one, but several DOM nodes?
- The short `<>...</>` Fragment syntax won’t let you pass a key.
- So, we have to use `React.Fragment` syntax.

```tsx
import { Fragment } from 'react';

// ...

const listItems = people.map(person =>
  <Fragment key={person.id}>
    <h1>{person.name}</h1>
    <p>{person.bio}</p>
  </Fragment>
);
```

