# Keeping Components Pure


## Pure functions

- Pure functions only perform a calculation and nothing more. They accept some input parameters and using them perform a calculation and return the results.
- No interactions with extrenal world, no side effects and updating outside variables.
- Same inputs, same output. Given the same inputs, a pure function should always return the same result irrespective of any factors like user role, authentication status, permissions etc.


React assumes that every component you write is a pure function. This means that React components you write must always return the same JSX given the same inputs:


## Side Effects: (un)intended consequences 

- React’s rendering process must always be pure.
- Components should only return their JSX, and not change any objects or variables that existed before rendering.

```tsx
let guest = 0;

function Cup() {
  // Bad: changing a preexisting variable!
  guest = guest + 1;
  return <h2>Tea cup for guest #{guest}</h2>;
}
```
- This component renders 2, 4 and 6 as output.
- This component is reading and writing a guest variable declared outside of it.
- This means that calling this component multiple times will produce different JSX as the value of count is not predicatable!

## Detecting impure calculations with StrictMode 

- React offers a “Strict Mode” in which it calls each component’s function twice during development. By calling the component functions twice, Strict Mode helps find components that break these rules.
- Pure function will always return the same result when called with same inputs. If our function is impure calling it twice would break it.
- Notice how the original example displayed “Guest #2”, “Guest #4”, and “Guest #6” instead of “Guest #1”, “Guest #2”, and “Guest #3”.
- The original function was impure, so calling it twice broke it.


## Where you can cause side effects 

- While functional programming relies heavily on purity, at some point, somewhere, something has to change.
- These changes—updating the screen, starting an animation, changing the data—are called side effects. They’re things that happen “on the side”, not during rendering.
- In React, side effects usually belong inside event handlers.
- Even though event handlers are defined inside your component, they don’t run during rendering! So event handlers don’t need to be pure.
- If you’ve exhausted all other options and can’t find the right event handler for your side effect, you can still attach it to your returned JSX with a useEffect call in your component. This tells React to execute it later, after rendering, when side effects are allowed. 
