# Reacting to Input with State

## How to architect a component which changes it's content based on user interactions.

Consider a form that lets the user submit an answer:

- When you type something into the form, the “Submit” button becomes enabled.
- When you press “Submit”, both the form and the button become disabled, and a spinner appears.
- If the network request succeeds, the form gets hidden, and the “Thank you” message appears.
- If the network request fails, an error message appears, and the form becomes enabled again.


## Steps

1. Identify your component’s different visual states
2. Determine what triggers those state changes
3. Represent the state in memory using useState
4. Remove any non-essential state variables
5. Connect the event handlers to set the state


## Step 1: Identify your component’s different visual states 

- Think about all the states of your UI that a user can see.
- Create mocks for all the states identified and name them.
- Write the UI for each state identified above.
- **Empty:** Form has a disabled “Submit” button.
- **Typing:** Form has an enabled “Submit” button.
- **Submitting:** Form is completely disabled. Spinner is shown.
- **Success:** “Thank you” message is shown instead of a form.
- **Error:** Same as Typing state, but with an extra error message.

```tsx
{STATES.map((state) => (
  <Form key={state} state={state} />
))}

interface Props {
  state: string;
}

export default function Form({ state }: Props) {
  if (state === "success") {
    return <h1>That's right</h1>;
  }

  const btnDisabled = ["empty", "submitting"].includes(state);
  const textDisabled = ["submitting"].includes(state);

  return (
    <>
      <h1>City quiz</h1>
      <p>
        In which city is there a billboard that turns air into drinkable water?
      </p>
      <form onSubmit={(e) => e.preventDefault()}>
        <textarea disabled={textDisabled} />

        <button disabled={btnDisabled}>Submit</button>
      </form>

      {state === "error" && (
        <p className="Error">Good guess but a wrong answer. Try again!</p>
      )}
    </>
  );
}

```

## Step 2: Determine what triggers those state changes 

- Identify the interactions that causes us to switch between states.
- Changing the text input (human) should switch it from the Empty state to the Typing state or back, depending on whether the text box is empty or not.
- Clicking the Submit button (human) should switch it to the Submitting state.
- Successful network response (computer) should switch it to the Success state.
- Failed network response (computer) should switch it to the Error state with the matching error message.

To help visualize this flow, try drawing each state on paper as a labeled circle, and each change between two states as an arrow. You can sketch out many flows this way and sort out bugs long before implementation.


## Step 3: Represent the state in memory with useState 

- Identify the state for your component by looking at all the viusal states of the component.
- Start with the state that absolutely must be there. For example, you’ll need to store the answer for the input, and the error (if it exists) to store the last error.
- Then, you’ll need a state variable representing which one of the visual states that you want to display. 


## Step 5: Connect the event handlers to set state 

- Add event handlers that changes state.
