# Principles for structuring state 

## Group related state 

EXAMPLE - 1

```tsx
const [x, setX] = useState(0);
const [y, setY] = useState(0);
```

```tsx
const [position, setPosition] = useState({ x: 0, y: 0 });
```

EXAMPLE - 2

```tsx
const [firstName, setFirstName] = useState('');
const [lastName, setLastName] = useState('');
```

```tsx
const [user, setUser] = useState({ firstName: '', lastName: '' });
```

- Should we use a single state variable or multiple?
- If two state variables are always changing together, we should unify them into a single state variable.



## Avoid contradictions in state 

- There should not be any combination of state variables which makes no logical sense or is not handled by the UI.
- If there is some combination, unify those state variables into a single variable.
- Consider a hotel feedback form with `isSending` and `isSent` state variables.
- Both of them cannot be true at the same time.
- Since `isSending` and `isSent` should never be true at the same time, it is better to replace them with one status state variable that may take one of three valid states: 'typing' (initial), 'sending', and 'sent'.


## Avoid redundant state 

- If we can calculate some information from component's props or existing state during rendering, then that information should not be a state.
- Because everytime component rerenders it will agian calculate fresh value.
- Example we have two input fields for firstname and lastname and we want to greet user by fullname.
- Fullname can be calculated using firstname and lastname state variables. Hence it should not be a state variable.

```tsx
  const [firstName, setFirstName] = useState('');
  const [lastName, setLastName] = useState('');

  const fullName = firstName + ' ' + lastName;
```


## Don’t mirror props in state 

```tsx
function Message({ messageColor }) {
  const [color, setColor] = useState(messageColor);
```
- The problem is if parent component passes a different color blue instead of red, the state variable will not be updated as state is only initialized during first render.
- The state variable will run out of sync from prop.


## Avoid duplication in state 

```tsx
const initialItems = [
  { title: 'pretzels', id: 0 },
  { title: 'crispy seaweed', id: 1 },
  { title: 'granola bar', id: 2 },
];

export default function Menu() {
  const [items, setItems] = useState(initialItems);
  const [selectedItem, setSelectedItem] = useState(
    items[0]
  );
```

```tsx
items = [{ id: 0, title: 'pretzels'}, ...]
selectedItem = {id: 0, title: 'pretzels'}
```

- Let's say we have a list of items and we can select one item.
- We pick a state variable for list and selected item. The information is now duplicated in two places. Inside list also we have same object and the selected item is also pointing to same object.
- This raises a challenge to keep them in sync which is unneccassary.
- Let's say that our items in the list can be modified. When that happens sleceted item object will be out of sync.
- So, instead of duplicating state, we can store selectedItem id and calculate information during rendering.



## Avoid deeply nested state 

- It is hard to update deeply nested states.
- So whenevr the state is too nested, always try to flatten it.
