# Extracting State Logic into a Reducer

- Some components can have many state updates across multiple event handlers.
- Component like this can be hard to read, debug and maintain as state is getting updated from multiple places inside a component.
- We consolidate all the state update logic into a central place (a reducer function) that lives outside of our component.
- Instead of scattered state update logic across the component, we have one central place to update our state. This function is also isolated from our component.


## How to use reducers

## Step 1: Move from setting state to dispatching actions 

- State is not set directly in the component.
- We just dispatch actions from a component which tells what a user just did.
- Action is an object passed to dispatch function that tells about what the user did.
- By convention this object should have a `type` field which should tell what happened.
  

```tsx
function handleAddTask(text) {
  dispatch({
    type: 'added',
    id: nextId++,
    text: text,
  });
}
```

- By convention, it should have a `type` field that tells us what the user just did.


## Step 2: Write a reducer function 

- A reducer function is where you will put your state logic. It takes two arguments, the current state and the action object, and it returns the next state.
- React will set the state to what you return from the reducer.
- This function takes an action object and base don the type of action it returns a new state.
- Because the reducer function takes state (tasks) as an argument, you can declare it outside of your component. This decreases the indentation level and can make your code easier to read.

```tsx
import { Task } from "../data/tasks";

type Action =
  | {
      type: "ADD_TASK";
      payload: Task;
    }
  | {
      type: "DELETE_TASK";
      payload: number;
    }
  | {
      type: "UPDATE_TASK";
      payload: Task;
    };

export function taskReducer(tasks: Task[], action: Action) {
  switch (action.type) {
    case "ADD_TASK": {
      return tasks.concat(action.payload);
    }
    case "DELETE_TASK": {
      return tasks.filter((task) => task.id !== action.payload);
    }
    case "UPDATE_TASK": {
      return tasks.map((task) => {
        if (task.id === action.payload.id) {
          return action.payload;
        }
        return task;
      });
    }
  }
}

```
