# State: A Component's Memory

- Components need to remember some information. Like list of users, current page, page size, search term etc.


## Problems with local variables

- Local variables don’t persist between renders. When React renders a component again, all local data will be reset and reinitialized.
- Changes to local variables won’t trigger renders. So, even if the variable is updated, the UI will not reflect the changes. Model and view go out of sync.


## useState 

- This is the problem that useState hook solves.
- `useState` is a function that returns an array of two things a state variable and a setter function.
- It takes an argument initial state.
- It gives us a state variable to retain the data between renders.
- A state setter function to update the variable and trigger React to render the component again with new value. Model and view are always in sync.
- The convention is to name this pair like const [something, setSomething].
- Every time your component renders, useState gives you an array containing two values:



## How does React know which state to return? 

- If we are using multiple `useState`, how does React knows which call will return what state?
- There is no “identifier” that is passed to useState, so how does it know which of the state variables to return?
- Hooks rely on a stable call order on every render of the same component. That is why we should always call Hooks at the top level so that they are always called in same order on every render.
- Internally, React holds an array of state pairs for every component. It also maintains the current pair index, which is set to 0 before rendering. Each time you call useState, React gives you the next state pair and increments the index.


## State is isolated and private 

- Every component on the screen has an isolated and private state. If we render the same compoenent multiple times, each instance will have it's own isolated state.
