# State as a Snapshot

- State acts like a snapshot. It does not update and stays constant for a render.
- State does not live in a component but inside React.
- When React calls our component, it gives us a snapshot of state for that particular render which never changes for a render.
- Setting state does not change the state variable you already have, but instead triggers a re-render.
- During next render we ask React to give us updated value which it calculates using a queue.



```tsx
export default function Counter() {
  const [number, setNumber] = useState(0);

  return (
    <>
      <h1>{number}</h1>
      <button onClick={() => {
        setNumber(number + 1);
        setNumber(number + 1);
        setNumber(number + 1);
      }}>+3</button>
    </>
  )
}

```

- Calling `setCount` only triggers a render. That's all. It doesn't update any values.
- Also state acts like a snapshot. During a render it remains unchanged.
- So, the value of count is 0 for initial render. So, the event handler will also receive 0 as state value.

```
setCount(0+1)
setCount(0+1)
setCount(0+1)
```
- Even though we call `setCount` 3 times, We are always asking React to give us a value of 0+1 as new state during next render.




```tsx
export default function Counter() {
  const [number, setNumber] = useState(0);

  return (
    <>
      <h1>{number}</h1>
      <button onClick={() => {
        setNumber(number + 5);
        alert(number);
      }}>+5</button>
    </>
  )
}
```

- During initial render, React gives us 0 as state value which will remain constant for a particular render.
- Inside the handler, the state value will be 0.
- `setNumber` will just trigger a render, and rest of the code inside handler executes first.

```tsx
setNumber(0 + 5);
alert(0);
```
- So, alert will print 0.


### But what if you put a timer on the alert, so it only fires after the component re-rendered?

```tsx
export default function Counter() {
  const [number, setNumber] = useState(0);

  return (
    <>
      <h1>{number}</h1>
      <button onClick={() => {
        setNumber(number + 5);
        setTimeout(() => {
          alert(number);
        }, 3000);
      }}>+5</button>
    </>
  )
}
```


```tsx
setNumber(0 + 5);
setTimeout(() => {
  alert(0);
}, 3000);
```

- Every re render the event handlers are recreated.
- Event handlers created in the past have the state values from the render in which they were created.
- The state stored in React may have changed by the time the alert runs, but it was scheduled using a snapshot of the state at the time the user interacted with it!
- When the handler was executed, the state at that time is important to consider.
- A state variable’s value never changes within a render, even if its event handler’s code is asynchronous.
- You can mentally substitute state in event handlers, similarly to how you think about the rendered JSX.


