# React batches state updates 

- It's not like React will trigge a new render everytime you call setState.
- React waits until all code in the event handlers has run before processing your state updates (re-rendering).
- This lets you update multiple state variables without trigerring too many renders.
- But this also means that the UI won’t be updated until after your event handler, and any code in it, completes.
- It also avoids dealing with confusing “half-finished” renders where only some of the variables have been updated.
- This behavior is called Batching.


## Updating the same state multiple times before the next render 

```tsx
setNumber(number+1);
setNumber(number+1);
setNumber(number+1);
```

- No matter how many times we call setNumber(number + 1), It will always return the same result as the value of number is constant during a render.
- But I want to update this state variable multiple times before next render.
- Instead of passing the nextState value, pass a function that calculates nextState based on the previous one in the queue.

```tsx
setNumber(n => n + 1);
setNumber(n => n + 1);
setNumber(n => n + 1);
```

## React queue

While executing the event handler code, this is what React does when we call setState.

1. setNumber(n => n + 1): n => n + 1 is a function. React adds it to a queue.
2. setNumber(n => n + 1): n => n + 1 is a function. React adds it to a queue.
3. setNumber(n => n + 1): n => n + 1 is a function. React adds it to a queue.

- During the next render, React goes through the queue and gives you the final updated state.
- When you call useState during the next render, React goes through the queue.
- The previous number state was 0, so that’s what React passes to the first updater function as the n argument.
- Then React takes the return value of your previous updater function and passes it to the next updater as n, and so on.

## What happens if you update state after replacing it 

```tsx
<button onClick={() => {
  setNumber(number + 5);
  setNumber(n => n + 1);
}}>
```

- `setNumber(number + 5)`: `number` is `0`, so `setNumber(0 + 5)`. React adds “replace with 5” to its queue.
- `setNumber(n => n + 1)`: `n => n + 1` is an updater function. React adds that function to its queue.
- During the next render, React goes through the state queue:
- React stores 6 as the final result and returns it from useState.


## What happens if you replace state after updating it 

```tsx
<button onClick={() => {
  setNumber(number + 5);
  setNumber(n => n + 1);
  setNumber(42);
}}>
```
